Hi.
So in this video I want to talk a little bit about the dance that's available in Python.
Somebody asked me to do a video on that.
So let me go ahead and show you a few things.
So first of all the thing is that when we call a Python program we can do so from the command line.
So we would type python so here I am in my environment called deep dive.
So I have Python configured and I can call a python module.
Essentially we've solved that in the section on modules and packages.
So I can call Amadeo and to do that I'm going to have to write a module first.
So let's go ahead and write a simple module.
Let's call this example one IPY.
And now I can call that example.
So for now I'm just going to print Hello.
OK so just as a reminder of how this can work.
So if I call the program I get my output on my console called Hello.
Because the print is going to print out to the console
box.
We can't actually pass arguments to our module.
So we can pass arguments like this maybe 10 20 and 30.
Now if I just run this I'm not doing anything with those arguments inside the program.
So it wouldn't do anything but I want to be able to pick up those arguments and I can do that by using
the ARG the property that we have in the CIS module.
So here I'm going to do is I'm going to print since Cisco up the gate so that that's all I'm doing.
And I'm not going to call this program passing in those three arguments and you can see what is it is
a list that contains four items.
It contains the name of the module that I called the script file essentially that I ran.
And then it contains 10 20 30 strings.
You'll notice but as elements of that list and I can put in as many as I want I can put in you know
let's say on John.
Whoops John I can type it CLI's Eric Idle.
And you'll notice what's happening is that I'm separating those values by spaces.
And I get that 10 20 John Cleese.
Eric Idle you'll notice that the spacing essentially that space is what determines which of these arguments
where this string essentially is being split.
It's the same thing as doing a split on a string where the split is based on a space.
So that's what SR does.
So we can recover command line arguments and use them in our program because now we have a handle on
them.
So let's do another example.
Let's create a example to and we'll work our way up slowly.
And here I want to be able to use those values that are in the system on the list.
So let's write a simple let's say importance and numbers equal Sisk that aren't we.
Now I'm not interested in the first element of the arguments because that's the name of the file.
So I don't really care about that.
And I'm going to sum those numbers up.
We have some function right.
So those numbers I'm going to pass it numbers and I'm going to sum them up.
Let's see what happens when I do that.
So now I'm going to call Python.
I'm going to do exampled to Doppie why I'm going to pass it 10 20 and 30.
So what do you think is going to happen at this point.
Well let's see.
We get an error.
What does it tell us unsupported operand types for plus int and string.
Well yeah.
We can't some numbers.
What are the numbers.
Let's print them out let's print numbers out.
OK and let's rerun this and you'll see that the numbers of the strings 10 20 40.
So we need to fix that.
We need to now basically go ahead and change our program.
So let me make a new file call this example three and
then we remove the second dot over here.
So we're going to keep doing the same thing.
We're going to import this then I'm going to say numbers.
Now I need to convert those numbers so I want to basically put an end.
Right.
I want to pass those strings to the end and I'm going to say into AA but for what I'm going to use a
list comprehension for a in that says that the 1 onwards.
So again now I am however still assuming that we're going to be passing numbers in.
Yes there will be strings but we'll be able to convert them to ints.
OK.
And now we can say print some numbers.
OK so now let's go ahead and run example 3 which now will work properly.
And indeed we get the some 60.
Now very often though we need more complicated inputs we want maybe repeated values maybe we want different
inputs and different types and optional inputs and so on.
So we could certainly try and use this you know this approach here of using the system.
And we ourselves and try and somehow pass the data out of this list that's coming back from system of.
Let's let's try that.
Let's actually try that using an example.
So let's call this example fold.
And I'm going to import this small module and now I'm going to assume that maybe we're going to call
our application example for we're going to call it maybe using parameters like last name.
So we'll be able to specify the parameter name.
And then followed by the value.
So and then forced name followed by the value.
So this is kind of the pattern that I want to use to pass parameters to my application.
I'm going to name the parameter that I want followed by the value that I want for that parameter.
And now I'm going to have to deal with that in code because remember that my parameters are going to
be in says that V
from 1 onwards.
Let's go ahead and print that out.
Let's do that first.
So let's go ahead and call for example 4 and I'm going to follow kind of what I did over here.
I'm going to say the last name of John Cleese sorry.
And first name John.
OK.
So now when I do that here's the list that I have I have the parameter name the value the parameter
name the value.
So I need to look at these values these these parameter name and values as pairs essentially.
So how could I do that.
Well let's go ahead and do this for I in range.
And we're going to go from one up to six dark the length of six aren't going to go insteps of two.
Why one.
Because I'm not interested in the first element of system of the.
And I want to go up to but not including the last element of says that the insteps of two.
So this will allow me to grab things pairwise Let me show you we can do this.
Dobbed V I think says Dot vene plus one.
OK.
So let's see what we get when we now run the same thing right.
We get last name.
First name John.
All right.
So we're getting there but we still need to be able to somehow grab those values and put them into variables
and maybe we want to do something like this.
So let me start a new example.
For example 5.
And you can download all those files.
They'll be in the repository as well as zipped up with this lecture.
So let's go ahead and impulses.
And basically I want to create a dictionary that's going to have these as the keys and these as the
values then will be easy for me to look up a parameter is a value by name.
I'll just be able to pass the key in.
Now have those double dashes I could write code to take that out.
But I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to keep it relatively simple.
So let's go ahead and assume that we have assisted v.
Right so we're going to have to start with the those are going to be the keys what are going to be the
keys.
Well we start at remember if I print out let me go ahead and print out the entire array OK says that
Arvie.
So let's just rerun this program remember again the first element is the script name the file name.
I'm not interested in that.
So my keys are where they start at 1 and they always go in steps of 2 because I'm using this convention
of passing the parameter name followed by the value.
So we can do it this way we can start at 1.
We'll end at the end and we'll go in steps of two.
Now what about the values.
Well the values are.
We're going to kind of get them the same way but where are the values where the values don't hinge right
at index 0 1 2.
And again they'll go insteps of two.
So we'll go from starting at two.
All the way to the end instead of two.
This will give me the keys and the verniers.
Let's check that.
So now I want to run example number five with the same parameters as before.
And you'll see that we've printed the keys out last name first name and the values CLI's and John.
So far so good.
Now what I want to do though is I want to create a dictionary while I have the keys in this list and
the values in this list.
So I'm going to use a dictionary comprehension as well as the zip function.
Think back to the zoom function.
What happens if we print that say will zip up keys and values what do we get when we do this.
Well let's see.
Well I have to get it as a list because it's actually just an iterable and you'll see that we now have
two couples where the first element of the top all is the key.
The second element is the vendor.
Right.
That's what happens when you zip up to it triples you get an interval where the top holes contain the
corresponding elements from each iterable.
So now that should be fairly simple to go ahead and create a dictionary that contains the keys and the
values.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's call equals K..
So I'm doing a dictionary comprehension for k comma V thin soup keys comma values.
Basically I'm iterating through this zipped up keys and values extracting K and so on unpacking the
top all that comes back for you know in each loop on the zip on unpacking it into K and V.
This will be the first element of a toppled the second element of the table and then making a dictionary
out of it.
So let's go ahead and print it.
Now let's see what we have when we do that.
Now we have indeed our dictionary.
OK.
Now I want to get those values into variables in my program so I can use them as straight variables
instead of having to pick them out of the dictionary all the time.
Well that's really straightforward.
I can just do an OGs that gets.
And if you want to be say if you could do something like this.
And then last but they are in there.
I know they're in there so I could just use regular square brackets as well to get it
last name and it's free.
I know for Dashon I have not forced to underscore names in there so I'm glad I put that get.
None that would that will not crash.
And then we can print first name last name.
OK.
So there we go.
We printed John Cleese we basically recovered Cleve's and John right.
We didn't specify the name the first name fourth.
We put the last name first.
It all work equally well if we do this if we say first name is John followed by last name is CLI's you'll
notice that the older in which we specify those parameters doesn't matter.
We still end up with John Cleese correctly now of course it gets more complicated because what happens
if we want to say may be the birth year.
Right.
So maybe the year of birth is 2000.
What's going to happen when we do that.
Well nothing much right.
We're going to end up with this minus y o b.
All right.
I use the single dash there and a value of 2000 as a string.
Now it's in my dictionary but I don't have it in a variable.
I'd have to put it into a variable.
So let me go ahead and do that.
I will say.
Year of birth unequals angst dog get and I'll fix it to a double dash Y or B.
And there we go.
We have that.
The problem is that this y o b is going to be a string.
So now I mean to cast it to a string on it to coerce it into a string into an end.
Sorry to go from the strings so if I run this again and I will print why OAB as well while I'm there.
And let's run this and we get John Cleese two thousand.
Well he wasn't born in 2000 but.
But you'll notice that I had to do the cast myself.
I have to try and you know pass this thing out from the array get the names and that's not a very clean
name here.
There's a lot of work involved in basically extracting information from this string essentially that's
being passed right into my module when I call it.
So instead of trying to do this ourselves we can use Python's built in while it's in the standard library
it's got a module called Aag pass.
So let's go ahead and start using that.
And that's going to make life a lot simpler.
So let's go is example number six and we're going to import the arc pass module and the Akbar's module
gives us a object a class that we can use.
And it's a parser.
So we're going to create that passive type calling argument passage and argument passage.
We'll take one of the things that it takes is something called a description which is basically describing
this as kind of think of this as help for the users when they call our application.
They will be able to request help to see what other parameters and what does this thing do.
So here I'm going to say this calculates
the difference a div B and mod a mod B of two integers.
So that's that's what this does.
That's what this program does not the person.
The past is just going to help us retrieve information from the command line.
How do we tell the pouncer what to expect in this command line in these command line arguments.
What we have to basically tell it that we have arguments that we're expecting and we do this by now
adding arguments to the parser object that we just created.
So first step create the parser second step at arguments.
So let's go ahead and create an argument.
We'll give that name a.
We'll give it a name A.
But you'll see that this is actually a positional argument.
So let's go ahead and call this fourth integer and then we can also specify the type.
So add argument we're specifying a name but this is the name that we're going to see this argument as
it is not a name that's going to be passed on the command line we're not there yet.
We're just going to pass values.
So in other words we're going to call this program by saying Python example six p y.
Maybe 10 and 3.
So there will be two values 10 and three that are going to be retrieved and the first one is going to
be this positional argument here.
Now we need to add another one.
So let's go ahead and add the second one because we need two arguments for this program and we'll call
this beep.
And let me change those quotes to single parents.
OK.
And then we'll say help equals for a second integer.
And the type is also going to be an int.
So this is what we expect to be provided on the command line when we call the application.
Once we're done with that we now have to pass those values.
Now where are those values sitting.
Well they're sitting.
Are we starting at position number one.
Right.
The the second element basically of the onwards.
So we need to tell the passer to pass those arguments and we can do it this way.
We're going to say.
So.
Arms will return an object and we have to tell it which arguments.
Well if we don't specify any parameters here all it's going to do it's going to look at syste of V and
get those values then.
I don't have to do it this way.
And you have for example you may want to say and of course this is going to look very very silly.
I'm going to do one hundred and 300 OK and let's say even strings in here so I can tell it to pass this
list right.
So the answer really has nothing to do with the arguments that are being passed on the command line.
You can use the parser independently right here.
I'm not relying on the arguments of pass come back and ought to be passed from the command line.
So let me go ahead now and access those variables.
How am I going to access those variables that have been passed those values that have been passed by
using the names a and b.
So now I can say print is not a and print.
Dot B.
So let's go ahead and run this.
And you'll notice that it printed one hundred and 300 not the 10 and the three that I passed on the
command line.
How do I tell that what I want that would be all that I want the arguments to come from the command
line.
Well I can do it one of two ways I can impulses and I can pass it right says that.
But of course starting at the index number one.
And if we do this and now run this example you'll notice that we get 10 and 3 it grabbed 10 and three
because there was in the sense that we.
That's what it passed.
And by default if you don't specify it it does exactly the same thing.
So really you know when you're grabbing parameters from the command line you don't need to pass it to.
But I wanted to show you that you can use this argument Pelzer for your own list of stuff that you want
to pass.
It doesn't have to be from command line.
So let's go ahead and run this again.
OK.
And you can see we get the same thing 10 and 3.
So now let's do something we did promise that we would calculate div and model.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we have let's say a equals Ogg's dot A and B equals dot B.
And then we're going to print.
I'm going to use an F string for that.
We're using Python 3:6.
So got f strings which was I into played values.
So we'll say a div B is equal to a div B.
K.
And then a mod B equals a mod B.
So now let's try running this.
So 10 3.
And as you can see we get Tendo the threes 3 and 10 mod 3 is 1.
That's the remainder after we've done our integer division.
Let's go ahead and try and call this thing with no arguments.
Let's see what happens.
It tells us there was an error.
The following arguments are required a and b.
So you can see that the Peloso provides extra information extra functionality to us.
For example we could also say Python example sixt IPY dash H or minus H.
And here will get help for help.
Message at first tells us what this does so it gives us the usage it tells us this is how you should
call this.
You can call example 6 with optionally dash H which is what we just did to get help.
And then we need we have two required positional parameters a and b.
This is what this script is going to do it's going to calculate the div and the mound and it tells us
what the positional arguments are.
The first integer is the second integer we can also call it instead of Dash h we can use dash dash.
So usually when we have multiple letters for a parameter name we use a double dash.
It's a single letter.
We use a single dash.
So this will work the same way and give us the same result.
So again we got a lot of extra functionality for free essentially from passing.
It was able to display these help messages this description these helps.
Right.
And it was able to tell that it needed to integers.
What happens if we don't pass an integer.
Let's say we pass in ten and twenty point five again you can see the extra functionality we get from
the parents or it tells us that nunna B is an invalid.
It has to be an integer value.
This is not an integer value.
Twenty point five is not there.
And if we forget to pass the second parameter we will get the same thing.
The following arguments are required.
It knows all that.
So there's a lot of really good stuff that you get for free essentially out of argument passing.
If we were to write this ourselves the way we were doing up you know up till now in the first five examples
it would be a lot of work.
So now the next example I want to show you is how do we use named arguments not just positional arguments
the way we have here.
So let's call this the example seven and calls that let's go ahead and write this.
So let's import class and I'm also going to import data.
Time I'm going to work with data a little bit.
So I'm going to do something where I'm going to pass in the person's name their first name and last
name as two separate arguments.
And they're both here as an integer and then I'm going to calculate how old they are based on the value
that was passed in for the year of birth.
So let's go ahead and create I'll pass it to the first thing we have to do is create the passage.
So outpolls argument Pasdar let's give it a description.
Get in the habit of providing descriptions.
And this returns a string containing the name and age of the person.
Something like that.
So kind of silly example but this is really just to show you how this works.
I'm sure you can come up with your own real life examples of where you want to use this kind of functionality.
So no we have to create our arguments and we want to make the name.
Well it's very easy.
Use a name that contains either a dash or a double dash.
In general we always provide both but you don't have to.
And so I'm going to provide both.
So I'll be able to specify the name of this parameter on the command line using either dash F or dash
dash.
First I want to specify a help as well to specify the first name.
The type is going to be a string.
OK.
And I'm not going to make this required.
So here's another property that we have and other arguments are that we have an add argument which is
required and we can make that true or false.
I'm going to make this argument not required and I'm going to add another argument and this one will
do.
Dash L and dash dash last help will be the last name.
File pistis call it last name not specified last name.
It's just the last name the type is going to be string.
And this one however I am going to require.
I want to have at least the last name then I want to add another argument so add argument.
And this one I'm not going to provide a single letter name for that parameter.
I'm just going to say you have to use dash dash y all B for y you're of both.
Help is going to be of no
and the type for this one well I want it to be an integer.
I am not going to make it required.
And we could leave it at that case and now we would have all three arguments.
But one thing that I want to do is I want to specify by default by the way I'll be able to.
Well actually let's let's just do this.
Let's go ahead and print.
Well we first have to recover the arguments.
Right.
So we have to pass our says not on these we have to say args let's say equals passing that path.
And then let's go ahead and print this namespace salt.
We're going to print basically the dictionary that contains our past data.
So let's go ahead and call this.
So this is going to be example.
7. why I'm going to say dash F equals Pauli dash.
L is going to be carrot and dash dash Y or B is going to be 1969.
OK.
So you'll notice the way that it actually named the arguments it was forced last and why orbi.
It basically used the long name that we had.
Let's say we didn't have a long name for if I only had the shortened name dash y.
OK let's see what happens.
Now when I call this um yeah I obviously write I can't use why I will be.
That's no longer used.
So I have to use dash y.
You'll notice that I just have the Y over here.
So if you specify both However it will use the long name you may not want that name in the answer to
be the name that's provided on the command line and you can change that if you want.
All you need to do is specify this destination argument.
So here for example I might want to say my destination is going to be first underscore name.
OK.
So here basically I'm remapping what the value is going to be of this variable in that namespace.
So instead of being forced which is what it would be right now it's going to be forced on the school
name.
So I'm going to do the same thing overkilled destination equals flask underscore name.
And here I'm going to say destination
equals year because I want something that's a little bit more helpful for me in my code but I don't
want to make these long names for the users.
Right.
That's why we have short even you know short single characters and then you know the long ones should
still be short.
You don't want to make your users have to type a lot of characters just to pass in a few parameters.
OK.
So now that we have that we can still pass it just as before.
Nothing's changed and we can print the arguments out.
So let's go ahead and run this.
So we'll go back to the dash dash Y or B.
And you'll notice now of past arguments we have both underscore your first underscore name last on the
school name.
So let's do a little bit of work with that just to make it more interesting.
Let's go ahead and concatenate the first and last name to get the full name.
Now the problem is however that first name is not required.
So if I print let me show you what happens when I print the args out and I don't pass the first name
in because it's not a required argument.
OK.
Then you'll notice that first name is none and will get to default values in a bit.
So I have to be careful I can just concatenate first name and last name because I'd be concatenating
none with last name.
Right.
And then I want a space in between.
And so on.
So how am I going to do that.
Well I'm going to create this arm array basically.
And now what do we want to do.
Well we want to generate the full name.
So to generate a full name we're just going to join basically the names together with a space.
So there's only one name it's not going to join anything it will just return one name if both names
are present and we'll join them with a space in between.
So that's exactly what I want.
So this avoids me having to put all kinds of logic in terms of you know if the first name exists then
put it into a string then put a space.
But if the first name doesn't exist and so on.
So I'm avoiding some of that logic it's little cleaner doing it this way.
And that's because I'm using the dzong So current year equals date time Dot date time UTC.
Now I got you.
And now we have to get the age so that age is going to be the current year minus dot birth
year.
That's what we call it.
And I don't want to deal with the logic of having to figure out if the year was not passed so I'm going
to make required true in this case.
So basically when you call this program you can specify the first name.
But then you have to specify the last name and the year of birth.
And once that's done I'm just going to print out an F string.
We're going to print out the full name and we'll say full name is age years old.
OK.
Something like that.
So now let's go ahead and run this and I will now put in the last name we have the last name I'm going
to put in the first name.
OK.
So again the order in which I specify the parameters doesn't matter.
So here on specifying a last name for us then the year of birth then the first name which will be poly.
So if we run this we have an error.
It's telling us I don't know what first name is.
Yeah because we didn't call it first name would just call that forced.
So let's go ahead and fix that.
OK.
Remember that this last name is the destination.
That is what our internal values name is going to be what that symbol is going to be.
Well let's run this and it tells us Polly parrot is 49 years old.
Now you can try calling it with different parameters you might even call it with a dash dash help.
OK.
And you will get the help for this.
It's going to use the description returns a string containing the name and age of the person.
It's going to tell us what the parameters are right and what they are.
First Name Last Name your of birth.
That's the help message.
So let's move on to the next example.
And in this example scroll example 8.
I want to show you that we can specify multiple values for a single argument and there's different ways
of doing that.
I'm going to show you one way.
There are other things that you can do and that gets pretty fancy with the outbox.
So let's go ahead and create our password our instance of a password so argument password.
And we're going to say description equals Prince the squares of a list of numbers and the cubes of another
list of numbers.
So
I'm kind of running over the my 80 character limit but that's OK.
You get the idea.
So let me just make that a little wider.
And what do I want.
Well here's what I want is I want to add two arguments.
I want to add let's say an argument called Eskew.
And that's going to capture a list of integers that I want to square and maybe not even integers maybe
floats floats and then I'm going to want to pass another list may be called See you for cubes.
Another list of numbers.
So I want to pass two lists of numbers.
So let's go ahead and do this or we're going to add argument and we're going to call this s.
Q So I'm not going to give a short name for this.
Just the long one the help will just be a list of numbers to square.
And now I'm going to use this and as argument to the ADD argument.
This basically is saying I have a variable number of values that I'm going to take in but you can actually
specify a value.
Well not only can you have two and the value of an ox can be either a star or a plus.
What happens when it's a stump.
It means take in 0 or more.
In other words we're allowing an empty argument here not optional.
It's mandatory I haven't made it optional so I have to specify when I call the python app but it's saying
I want to take a variable number of arguments.
Possibly none.
OK possibly no arguments and then we'll specify the type.
Has flopped.
Then let me do another one.
Let me add another argument.
This one will call C-u for cubes for help.
We will see a list of numbers to cube.
Again we're going to use an odds to specify this as a variable number of values that we're going to
pass in but not going to put in a plus and the plus basically is saying I need at least one value in
here.
And the type is going to be float and required is going to be trued by default when required is not
specified it's false.
So here I'm saying that Eskew is not required and if even if you pass it in you don't have to pass any
numbers to it see you is required and you have to pass at least one value.
So now let's go ahead and tell us what we'll get back when we call those module plus scripts essentially.
OK.
That sounds OK.
Now square is optional.
So we're going to say if Scott Eskew.
So here noticed that I'm not saying if On-Star Eskew is not none I'm using the truthiness of stop s.
Q When is a list because this will be a list.
Because we use an arms.
When is a list truthy when it's not.
None.
First of all so if it was passed then Eskew will exist it won't be none.
But if we don't specify any values it will be an empty list which will be falsie.
So in other words here I'm doing two things here and when one shot I'm basically saying if x is not
None.
And Len of.
Dodd Eskew is greater than zero.
Kate this is the way that you would probably write it in other languages or if you come from other language
backgrounds you may be writing something like this don't you don't have to it all you can use the truthiness.
You forgot about that.
Go back to the other section in the videos on Boolean values by the way.
So here if we're now inside the if statement it means that Eskew exists.
It's a list and it's not empty yet.
For now we can say squares.
I'm just going to square every element and I'm going to use a list comprehension for n in angst on rescue
and then we're going to print squares.
Now for the cubes.
I know that they exist because it was required.
And we said you have to pass and at least one value.
So for cubes I can use again a list comprehension.
Ken and I didn't use a destination name so it's just going to be see you.
If I wanted to I could say destination equals cubes.
In which case here I would have to use cubes.
OK.
And then we'll print cubes out.
So let's go ahead and run this let's see what happens.
So we're going to call.
Example eight Doppie Y and rescue is not required.
So I'm not going to pass it in.
To start off with I'll pass in the cubes and I won't pass any values in.
So I'm going to say OK cubes is required.
So if we do that and as you can see tells me in knownow So you expect at least one argument.
And if you look at the usage example it tells us that the square brackets here indicate something that's
optional.
So Eskew is itself optional and it optional has one or more vamp's cubes is not optional you'll notice
that the dash dash see you is not surrounded by square brackets the way this one is.
So this is indicating that cubes is a non optional parameter it's a required named parameter.
And this Cube's value here is not in square brackets either.
So it is mandatory saying you need at least one.
And then as many more as you want.
So if we call it this way one two three four then we'll get our cubes 1 8 27 64.
Now why do we get floats back.
We passed in integers.
Well to us we think of them as integers.
But what did we tell the Passo that we were expecting here floats.
So that's why it actually converted them to float.
If we had said and then we would get integers 1 8 27 64.
However if we now try and say you know 4.5 it's going to tell us.
No no you can't.
The value is not an integer.
On the other hand if this was a float then this would work just fine.
Now of course we can all for Passons squares now for squares.
Right.
We don't have to pass a value for the square.
So this is legal and you'll notice it doesn't print the squares out but if I pass some values for square
1 2 3 4 then you'll notice that I have the squares 1 4 9 16 and then also the cubes.
So this is how you can specify arguments that take multiple values.
This is one way of doing so so let's look at the next example.
And in this one I want to talk about default values and flags.
So let's call this example number nine.
And we're going to import the answers.
And as usual we're going to create Bolsinger one instance of ALPA passer's and description will make
it something like testing defaults and flags.
All right so now the first thing I want to do is show you this thing called Action.
When we add an argument.
So we have a argument to add argument and let's start with let's say Monte that's going to be the name
of the field and the action is going to be Stoffe cat and I'm going to leave it at that.
And then we're going to say ants equals Prasoon that pass.
And then we'll print the arguments out.
Let's see what happens when we Nakul by phone example up y dash dash Monty and let's say it's John you'll
notice that we get the same behavior as we've seen so far.
And that's because the default value for action is stored.
That's why we don't specify it but it exists and there are other things that we could put in here.
So let's go ahead and use instead of store.
We're going to say still constant and we have to then tell it what the constant should be.
What this means is that we now have a command line argument that is going to be named but will not take
or value this kind of things or constant means.
I expect that I'm going to call my script this way and I'll specify dash dash Montie but no name I specify
a name.
You'll notice what happens is I get an error it tells me no that's unrecognized.
I don't know what this is because it's not expecting a value for this.
So this is an unknown argument name.
Instead I have to call it this way.
And when I do that you'll notice that I have Python inside of you.
Now this isn't quite the same as a default.
Let me show you a default.
Let's say that I'm going to say minus N and dash dash name and the action is going to be storm which
is the default so I don't need to specify it and I'm going to say default equals let's say John.
OK.
So now I have this thing over here.
This argument now if I don't specify the argument so I'm only going to call this dash dash Montie.
What happens is that Montie still gets Python just as before and the name defaulted to John.
Now I can however specify a name.
I can say the name is Eric in which case my name will be Eric.
So that's the default.
That's not the same thing as a constant with a still constant store constant means we're not taking
a value.
And whatever it is we're going to put into here.
OK.
But I cannot say this and not pass a parameter in.
That's going to tell me.
No no it expects at least one argument right.
I have a default when the argument is not specified at all.
Not when I don't specify a value.
Different scenarios different use cases.
OK so let's see how we might use that were flagged very often y'all.
If you used Unix or Mac you'll know that you can specify arguments with certain commands and bash like
a verbose or a quiet and it basically changes how much output you get on the console.
So let's see how we might implement something like this.
Yeah we might implement such an argument.
So let's go ahead and say mine is vi vatos.
OK.
And the action is going to be Stoff constant and the constant is going to be true.
So if we specify Dasch V we're going to set a constant to true.
And if we don't specify it I may want to say oh well in that case I want the default to be false.
So let's see what happens now.
And let me get rid of these two I'll just comment these two out just to keep it simple.
So let's see what happens when we call that.
And we're going to pass the flag dash VI.
And you can see that verbose came back as true because we passed it.
And so it took Trewin put it inside of a box.
Let's say that we don't pass in the dash V.
What happens.
It uses the default which is false.
So this is one way that you can implement flags and then change the value that's been passed whether
the flag was specified or not.
Now there's actually a simpler way of creating these flags.
So again we're going to add an argument and here's I'm going to say.
Well before I do that let me show you a variant on those goals.
So I'm just I'm not going to put a long name and the action is going to be store constant and I'm going
to specify that the constant is true but I'm not going to specify a default value.
So now if I try and call this with minus VI you'll notice that V-2 is none.
OK.
It didn't have a default.
It's still not required but it has no default values so its value is none.
So now let's see what happens.
So while we saw what happens when I don't pass in V-2 and if I pass in the two then that will be set
to true.
So you could use a flag that's either set to the constant or none.
If you don't specify it all you could have a flag that's set to the constant offset to the default.
If it's not passed him it's up to you how you want to do it.
And then we also have another action that is very often used for arguments for flags.
So at argument let's do this one called quiet and the action is going to be
still false.
So we're not storing up constant We're just saying store falls and we don't specify the constant false.
So again let me just comment these ones out just to keep things a little quieter on the command line.
If I don't specify it I get quite equals.
True.
So you'll notice what have.
What's happening here is that we've got this flag right.
This would be the same thing as doing constant is false and default is true.
So what I have achieved there was the same thing as doing.
And the argument let's call it minus.
And let's say that the action was still constant.
Let's say that the constant is false and the default is true.
This is kind of doing the same thing because what happens if I don't pass anything in.
You'll see that Q2 is true.
If I pass in Q2 and I pass in queue you'll notice that Q2 is false and quite is false.
OK.
So there is still false is basically a shorthand for doing this.
On the other hand we can also say store troll.
Now what happens if I don't specify.
Q I get that my quiet is false if I specify.
Q My quiet is true.
In other words it's the same thing as saying The constant is true with the defaults is false.
Ok this is again just a shorthand way of doing this thing over here.
So if I call it without you'll notice that both Q2 and quite often false.
If I call them
both You'll notice that both of them are true.
Right.
They're set to the constant so for Flav's very often we use store true and store false.
If you're using true and false but sometimes you may have Constans that you don't want to be booleans
you want it to be something else.
In which case you can use Stolk constant specify where the constant is and then specify if you want
to what the default should be.
If it's not specified otherwise you'll get none for that because this video is getting pretty long so
I'm going to wrap up.
But let me show you one last example and this is where we have mutually exclusive arguments.
So for example this verbose and this quiet.
I want to be able to specify that the user should specify verbose or quiet but not both.
That can be.
You can have both verbose and quiet output.
You can have neither verbose.
No quite.
That's OK.
But you can have both verbose and quite.
So let's go ahead and do this and let's create our passwords.
Thanks Dot argument Prasser.
I'm not even going to give a description this time.
Now I'm going to create a group and this comes from that passage.
So the instance of the pastor has this thing called add a mutually exclusive group.
So that's all I'm doing.
I'm basically creating a group from the past for instance.
So now I've got this group which is associated with the passage and to that group I can add arguments
and those arguments are going to be mutually exclusive.
In other words every argument that I add to the group I will be able to specify one and only one of
them on the command line.
Otherwise the policy will split on an error.
So why do this verbose and then the action is going to be still true.
Right.
So I'm just using this as a plain flag.
Now you don't have to use flags here.
I just am choosing to use flags
all mine rescue and mine is quiet
and the action here is going to be still true as well.
OK.
So I'm just using the same thing.
And no I'm going to say pantsuit but add arguments and I'm going to add an argument to the person not
to the not to the mutually exclusive group to the class directly.
I'm going to say add in.
Let's say something called End and that type is going to be and I'm going to use a complex number just
to show you that we can have other types as well even with things like complex numbers.
And then we'd have you know help on this which I'm going to leave Alpes not going to specify the help
and I am however going to make it required and I'm not going to set a default on making this required
anyways.
So no I can say honestly equals passing Don't pass.
And we can go ahead and print the odds of.
OK.
So let's go ahead now and call.
Example 10.
And I'm going to quote with while I need to pass in the numbers.
So it needs to be a complex number.
Well I can pass in 10.
Ten is a complex number.
Real numbers are complex numbers.
Integers are real so integers are complex numbers as well.
So that should be just fine.
And then I have to pass minus or minus Q.
I don't have to pass them in I can just call it this way in which case quietist falls.
Verbose is false.
And you'll notice that my number n is 10 plus zero g.
So the parser did the work correctly of casting those two complex numbers 10.
But of course I can call this let's say 10 plus three J I can type it this way.
And then I can pass in mind this Q and if I do this while the end are picked up correctly and the quiet
is true for both is false as expected.
But if I try and pass in both quiet and verbose you'll notice that it tells me no you can't.
You have to either specify V or Q And you'll notice you in the usage help.
We have the square brackets which means that what's inside here is optional.
So I don't have to specify anything inside here.
And the pipe character here means one or the other.
So I have to specify minors V or minus Q But not both.
And of course it could be minus me or minus minus the both of mine as mine is quite.
Which have one but not both.
So that's what the add mutually exclusive group would be.
And so how might I use something like this.
Well I'm going to import the C math library I'm just going to do something just to complete the example.
I'm going to do something kind of silly.
I'm going to save stuff.
Quite so if I'm been told be quiet I'm going to say quiet motive and you know print nothing to see move
along now.
OK.
Else if the ONS don't Vogue those specified then I'm going to say print close mode and that's probably
not the best way of structuring it but that will be good enough and the lecture is getting way too long
so I'm going to be verbose so I'm going to specify a lot of extra information so will go ahead and print
out stuff and so will print out the number that was passed then and then we'll print out maybe the real
part.
Equals will have to say start and not real serial number and then the imaginary part is as Dot and dog
Imaginarium.
And then finally we'll print f
dot an and then we'll convert that to polar coordinates.
Y imported the C math library.
K so we'll convert that to polar coordinates and otherwise I'll say that print normal mode and.
And this is why I have to.
I have to repeat this piece of code twice.
So I'm saying I don't structure it properly but that's fine.
OK so now that I have this code over here and this is really nothing to do with the arguments here we've
already seen how to pass the arguments of mutually exclusive.
I'm just showing your where you might use some your mutually exclusive thing using verbose and quite
but not both.
So go ahead and do that.
So when we can't do both so we can do neither.
Which is fine so we get normal mode and we get our numbers and the conversion to polar coordinates.
We could say this isn't quite mode and which case we get quite mode.
Nothing to see here but we could say this is in verbose mode and you can see we get the votes mode output
instead.
All right so this is kind of an introduction and it covers most I would say.
You know the majority of what you probably going to need when passing arguments from the command line.
If you do want more information on that there is help in the online documentation for Python.
There's actually two places you can look.
One is the actually the docs for the OG pass module and if you look there's also a tutorial.
So just do a search for Python tutorial Thanks that's in the standard python web site's documentation.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.